Nothing is more expensive than bad information.
Know the source.
One Radio Network dot com.
Okay, here we go.
Welcome to part two of our show.
Hope you enjoyed that with Dr. Richard Massey.
Boy, I sure did.
The whole exosome things and the origin story and the virus.
Oh man, really, really fascinating.
Dr. Ray Peat is here and he's with us and we're very happy to have him each month.
It is the third Monday of each month around 1030 central.
I had a little trouble getting his picture together.
Sharon's going to send another one and I'll get it up so you can see what he looks like
because he doesn't do the camera thing.
So we just do audio with Dr. Peat, which is great.
It's all that counts.
He's got some good things to say.
Ray Peat is a PhD and has been for a very long time.
He was, let me pull up his thing here, biology, University of Oregon.
He specialized in physiology and he taught schools including University of Oregon, Urbana
College, Montana State University, National College of Naturopathic Medicine, Universidad
Verde Cruzana, Universidad Autonomia Unestado de Mexico, Blake College, private nutritional
counseling for years.
His website is raypeat.com and you can do Ray Peat newsletter, I believe, it's email.
I'll ask him exactly.
I don't know why I don't remember that.
I should, Ray Peat newsletter and you get his newsletter every couple of months.
And you can email in right now, Patrick, at oneradionetwork.com or give him a call.
Dr. Ray Peat, good morning, sir.
Good morning.
How are things up there?
You're on the way upper left coast, eh?
Yeah.
I don't notice anything very different but I guess people are still acting pretty weird,
not going to their usual work and wearing masks and such.
Yeah.
We were talking about these exosomes with our last guest and I guess it was Dr. Andrew,
what was his name, the fellow up in New York that brought up the whole idea of exosomes.
So here's my understanding, let me know if I'm close, that these exosomes, they're everywhere
and we breathe them out and breathe them in every day and this is a way that we kind of
share, I guess, our common humanity with people and that these exosomes began to be named
into a virus some time ago and virus has a whole connotation of being bad.
Is that close so far?
That's close to what I believe.
It's not at all accepted by contemporary biologists but in the 1950s, a friend of mine was giving
all of the background supporting that idea that organisms of all sorts are emitting particles
like that.
They weren't called exosomes at that time but this person, Carl Lindgren, gathered up
evidence that biologists had accumulated that really couldn't be explained any other way
except for shared DNA and there's a lab in Germany now that for several years has been
showing that human cells actually incorporate a certain portion of the DNA from the foods
that we eat.
The particles, you know the phenomenon of presorption in which fairly big particles,
as big as a blood cell, for example, can pass from the intestine directly into the bloodstream
and exosomes are many times smaller than a cell so easily things that we eat, if they
contain exosomes, are very likely to get into our bloodstream and once there, according
to this German lab, the cell can take them up and incorporate them, possibly at some
point use them, integrate them into the functioning DNA but a very, very large part of our genome,
so-called, well of the DNA inside the cell, our functioning genome is only a small percentage
of the total DNA and the theory that we're absorbing DNA all the time would account for
why there's all this non-functioning DNA present.
So it's possible that our species is actually, is it possible that we're actually upgrading
everyone's DNA by breathing and that's how we're, I don't know, communicating with each
other and helping each other?
Yeah, but across species too.
Across species too, everybody, so animals too?
Yeah.
Wow, man.
So is that what you believe, Dr. Peat?
Yes.
I read that book.
It's pretty cool.
Over 50 years ago and it was very well documented but nothing easy to prove but very plausible.
So is it possible that flu viruses and cold viruses and any kind of a virus are really
exosomes that we all have and we share and we run around and share with each other and
these flus and colds are internal combustions and it's not something we actually get from
some source that's not already a part of us?
I think sometimes the, you know, Luke Montagnier, the Nobel Prize guy from the HIV virus dispute
with the United States, he believes that organisms communicate basically by something like radio
waves that resonate.
I've spent a lot of time studying the idea of resonance between organisms.
Montagnier believes it's electromagnetic waves that the DNA is tuned into.
I've spent most of my time thinking about the crystalline or liquid crystalline structure
of the cell.
The idea of liquid crystals was developed in the '30s and '40s with evidence that there's
long-range order within the cell.
It isn't just ordinary water but it's liquid crystal-like water.
The way you can operate, for example, a liquid crystal display screen, that's done by the
electrical control of the order in the crystal.
It's easy to demonstrate that it resonates to sound waves but the sound waves are not
at all distinct from electronic fluctuations.
When you have an electrically active polarized molecule organized over the whole length of
a cell, then you have the perfect conditions to resonate electronically, not just by sound
waves.
There's a man in the U.S. who has a website called Cell Intelligence who has been demonstrating
the intelligent behavior within a cell, not only of the whole cell but the highly organized
structures of the DNA.
He argues that this liquid crystalline ordering system in the cytoplasm extends right into
the DNA and represents the way that the needs of the cell can draw out exactly the part
of the genome that is needed at that moment for those conditions.
That's one of the mysteries.
How does it change?
When there's a change in the environment, the cell senses that and reaches in and draws
out just the kind of DNA needed to change to meet those problems.
And then it's possible then as we do it and as your body does it and then you breathe
it out and then you help other people to learn how to do it, I guess, right?
Yeah.
Normally that's probably going on in a constructive way.
All the time.
But sometimes, for example, energy deficiency.
If you're badly nourished, your cell can't get the energy it needs either to maintain
this very extensive organized crystal structure or to drive the selective process to pull
out the DNA and make it properly.
Yes, without the nutrition, without the basic building blocks that we talk about.
Yeah, then those beneficial communicating processes can go wrong.
Instead of catching something useful, you catch a cold.
Oh, you mean so we could pick up some exosomes that are flying around?
And not be able to use them properly.
Oh, and not use them.
Our system gets dumbed up.
Oh, I see.
So that's why people say, "I caught a cold."
But it was their own internal combustion thing that created it.
Yeah, but the whole environment of the person governs or interacts with their energy state.
So if you're working in a stressful environment, that stress increases your risk of something
going wrong.
Sure.
So then there's a, I guess what you're saying too, so then the cells and these exosomes
and this exchange from organism to organism, animal, plant, I guess, and human, is happening
on all levels, other than physical, and also physical, with the vibrations and the light.
Right, Doc?
Yep.
Whoa.
That's pretty cool.
So are we back to the basics then?
With everything that we know about everything and the way the world works, can we get so
really simple if we just eat really good food, get some sunlight, get some water, get some
exercise, we might be good.
I mean, we might be good to go.
Yeah, except there are so many factors working against all of those basic things.
Good quality food, good quality air and water.
Yeah, what does that mean, really?
And then beside that, you have the direct stresses, like when you immobilize an animal,
just keeping it confined.
The more confined it is, the more it goes into the depressed, helpless condition.
And people have been confined so long by a restrictive, highly demanding economic environment
that people are getting into this stress, helpless condition.
And animal studies show that you can bring the animal out of that helpless state, which
greatly increases the likelihood of the animal giving up during a problem instead of exerting
the energy that they do have, a psychological giving up and failing to use the right resources
that are there.
And that accounts for things like the faith healers, just by giving them a conviction
that there's a possibility of recovery.
It could happen.
Yeah, just pop right into the healthy state because they have been in this helpless, emotional,
biological state.
And with rats, something as simple as giving them toys to play with and a bigger area to
socialize with other rats, and even tickling a rat will increase its pleasure signals and
help it get out of the depressed, helpless state.
Wow, so that could be an argument as well for say, what do they call them, confined
animal, what are they, CAFOs?
So where animals or cows could not be as healthy or as vibrant or as nutritious when they're
confining them unnaturally.
Yeah, everyone needs a certain amount of play and lots of freedom.
Yeah, so that would be for dogs and cats.
I guess cats get over it.
They just do okay living at home in the house.
I guess they adapt to it.
Yeah, even old cats like to play.
Sure, sure.
So play is really important.
Ray Peters with us, Patrick Timpone on Radionetwork.com.
Wow, so how do you feel about then using things that are made in the lab like a sodium ascorbate
or different magnesiums other than food to balance out nutritional deficiencies overall,
Dr. Peat?
Do you think that's a reasonable thing to do?
I had my own long-term experience with vitamin C starting in 1953.
At the time, it was sold as sevitamic or C-vitamic acid, but it was still the ascorbic acid discovered
partly by Albert Santorgi.
I had heard about the virtues of it.
It was sold in 50-milligram tablets.
I had, for many years from the age of eight, the first time I spent any time in the woods,
I was extremely susceptible to poison oak.
Going in the woods in 1953, I was almost incapacitated by extreme poison oak.
Someone told me about vitamin C. I took, I think it was just one or two of these 50-milligram
tablets over the weekend and had no more poison oak reactions ever again in my life.
I have a slight itch if I handle it, but those 100, 150 milligrams over a weekend had that
absolute effect.
When the big tablets came out in 1956, 500-milligram tablets, people were talking about it as preventing
colds.
I took one tablet next morning, woke up with a sore throat and a cough.
You did?
Just one 500-milligrams of vitamin C?
Yeah, but the manufacturing process had obviously changed radically because they could sell
it 10 times cheaper than what it had been just three years earlier.
Much of the great research done with it was in the late '40s and early '50s.
Ten years later, I was very impressed by Linus Pauling's argument, so I started taking it
again.
I was absolutely convinced, did some experiments in the lab, found that it seemed to reverse
or stop some of the hardening of the collagen in animal tissues, and so I went on taking
it, but I had a chronic cough.
I went on for months, but on a trip to New York, the maid threw out my bottle of vitamin
C, and so for several days, almost a week, I didn't have any, and my cough cleared up.
When I got a new bottle and started taking it, the cough came back.
I realized that it very consistently had something powerfully allergenic, and I experimented over
the next few years.
I was volunteering in a clinic, and Eugene had a tremendous number of allergic people,
especially because of the grass fields, burning commercial grass seed-producing fields upwind,
and so I was seeing dozens of people taking everything they knew to help their allergies,
and I suggested, told them my experience, suggested they stop taking all of their supplements,
and almost all of them discovered they didn't have any allergies except for their supplements.
What could be in some of these things, vitamin C and other supplements as we know them, that
could be causing the allergic thing?
Just extra things, extras that they put in there?
No, something was happening in the substance itself.
A chemist, a free radical chemist, published an article describing taking chemically the
purest form of synthetic ascorbic acid that was available, not from a tablet, but straight
from the, it was called reagent grade, and putting 500 milligrams in a liter of distilled
water, then putting it in an apparatus that detects free radicals, and the apparatus showed
that nothing but the pure vitamin C and the pure water was producing the concentration,
a steady production of free radicals that a killing dose of x-rays would have produced
shining on the water.
And he said, "Isn't that amazing that a person can swallow this and their stomach isn't killed
the way the x-ray produced radicals would kill it?"
He said that shows something about our tissue defenses.
So it's not the vitamin C itself, I mean obviously you get good stuff with oranges and fruit,
it's the way that this stuff is made in the lab.
Yeah, I experimented drinking a gallon of orange juice and eating guavas and other extremely
high vitamin C foods, and no trace of an allergy, but as little as two or three milligrams of
the synthetic stuff would set off the allergy.
The chemist analyzed the traces, I think iron was the one he analyzed, but he said there
are similar amounts of other catalytic heavy metals.
Just takes a few atoms of the wrong heavy metal to activate vitamin C and make it toxic.
And when it's produced by plants, the plants couldn't maintain it, it would decompose in
free radicals if they allowed even trace amounts of these heavy metals.
So somehow the plants protect their vitamin C and if you eat it from a plant source, it
goes right into your own tissues beneficially rather than harmfully.
Very interesting.
So we had a guest on I guess last week and we're going to talk about him a little bit.
He was suggesting that if you do synthetic vitamin C, that it does something to the iron,
oxidizes it.
So that could be correct, right?
The iron is reduced, the opposite of oxidation, but it takes the electron from the vitamin
C and that puts the iron in a highly reactive toxic condition.
The iron can then give its electron directly to water, breaking down the water molecule,
producing the hydroxyl radical, which is the worst indiscriminate destroyer, free radical.
Wow.
So I'm going to ask you about iron.
Let's take a little bit break because we had quite an interesting conversation about iron.
So I'm going to get your take on.
If you're on hold, you're welcome to stay there, hang in there.
We've got some things to do.
Patrick Cimpone, OneRadioNetwork.com.
Roy P. is with us.
So get your questions in.
Patrick@OneRadioNetwork.com.
So let's see.
Put this guy up.
I started doing shows about health and nutrition, I guess really it was in the 70s.
That's what really got me into trouble because I guess that's when I began to get fired from
radio stations because I didn't know what I was doing.
I thought I was doing the right thing with telling people about stuff, but here I am
in the middle of New Orleans where the whole thing was, you know, Mio Mio crawfish and
Mio Mio and stuff like that and booze.
So I've been doing this a long time with healing stuff.
You could imagine the things and tools and machines and products that people have sent
me over those, is that 40 years ago?
I don't even know what it is.
I guess 40 years.
And lots.
And I've tried a lot of stuff.
Experimented with a lot of stuff.
But I'll tell you, the hydrogen technology with this machine that I've been on about
a year, breathing the browns gas and drinking the water, I can, there's no doubt that this
has been one of the most powerful things that I've done ongoing other than God.
Because that's the number one.
That I know you and I can heal, the body can heal through divine spirit without anything.
So that's my number one.
But there are tools that we are given that we can use, maybe food-based vitamin C or,
I don't know, things, you know, food-based things that we promote that we think are good
like pine pollen, some food.
But this hydrogen, there's something going on with this.
It's pretty magical.
You can go to molecularhydrogeninstitute.com and look at hundreds and hundreds of peer-reviewed
studies on hydrogen.
And Browns Gas, the machine that we promote, AquaCure, is even a step above because it
does something fun with the water that I'm just not quite sure.
There's a lifetime warranty on this machine.
There's a one-year, no questions asked, money-back warranty.
So if you don't like it, you can use it for eight, nine months and send it back and get
back your two grand.
What's up with that?
George Wiseman makes them.
George will be on the show soon.
Pretty incredible stuff.
Patrick Flanagan was onto the hydrogen thing.
There's many people out there selling little plop-plop fizzes to get more hydrogen in your
body.
But that's great.
I'm not going to be, but breathe the gas and drink the hydrogen water that you make at
home.
We have several emails and I can see some of it myself.
Some of my hair is coming back to a normal color.
I mean I started doing the gray thing 30 years ago and other people too.
So there's something pretty special going on with hydrogen purported to be one of the
number one antioxidants on the planet.
Now there's a lot of ways you can get it.
Your body makes hydrogen.
You don't need a machine.
You're not going to die without it.
Don't worry about it.
It's not going to cure COVID.
You know, we don't say any of that stuff.
These are just tools that are just kind of God-given.
If you got the box and you want to do it, play with it, I think you're going to feel
better and help you.
But you don't need it.
Body makes hydrogen with good food.
It's the way with all these things.
You don't need anything extra.
If you don't have any money, don't worry about it.
Get out in the sun, eat the best food you can, you'll be fine.
That's just my take anyway.
I, you know, I just, you know, whatever.
So this is the hydrogen machine.
You can go on oneradionetwork.com.
You click an order, click an order, hydrogen machine, and then I use promo code oneradio,
oneradionetwork.com, oneradionetwork.com, promo code oneradio.
Previously we were talking with Brandon about the Blue Shield EMF device, and he says it
goes out 90 yards in all directions.
It's an omnidirectional field that if you think about a huge sphere that's expanding,
that's essentially what the waveform pattern looks like.
That's cool.
So it's putting frequencies into the body, and then how does that work in relation to
electromagnetic field that's coming in the walls and the windows through a cell phone
tower down the street?
Yeah, so the cell repeaters and Wi-Fi and all this electromagnetic radiation in the
environment, people mistakenly think that this is somehow going to act like a shield
and block the radiation and make it not appear on any kind of tri-field meter or any measuring
device.
And that's simply not the case.
It's more of an energy medicine, so to speak, where it's stimulating the bodies at the cellular
level to create a cellular response to make all the individual cells much stronger and
more able to adapt to the EMF stressors.
So that's number one on the physical or the somatic level where the body's experiencing
a decrease in stress from electromagnetic fields.
If you're interested, you can click on the Blue Shield ad on the front page of One Radio
Network, use promo code OneRadio, or also contact Brandon through his website there
when you click, and he'll give you more information.
Front page, Blue Shield EMF protection device on OneRadioNetwork.com.
Nothing is more expensive than bad information.
Know the source.
OneRadioNetwork.com.
Well, it's an honor to have Dr. Ray Peat, PhD, RayPeat.com.
And your newsletter is Ray Peat's Newsletter, right?
Ray Peat's Newsletter?
Ray Peat's?
Yeah, Ray Peat's with an S. S, newsletter.
Not dot com, but email, at gmail.com.
Right.
Ray Peat's Newsletter, plural, at gmail.com.
And it comes out every couple months.
When's the next one coming out?
Last month is going to come out at the end of this week.
And what's it about?
The big...
Education and what the virus situation is doing to education.
Wow.
I guess a lot.
Shutting it down, basically.
Yes, sir.
I met with the Gates Foundation people and Eric Schmidt, the former, for many years,
CEO and chairman of Google, working for the Pentagon.
He was saying, and his commission was saying, over a year ago, that schools basically have
to be shut down because they're expensive and it's much cheaper to do it over the internet.
And just this year, he met with Cuomo and Cuomo said, "Yeah, what are all these buildings
and classrooms for?
We don't need them if we have the internet."
Fascinating.
Even in Austin, I just heard that I think they're going to do online schools for the
first maybe six weeks and then see how it goes.
But Dr. Peat, they keep testing people, more and more people.
And as you know, if you get a positive test, they think you have some unique, virulent,
deadly communicable disease.
I think that testing the so-called incidence of disease goes up in proportion to how many
tests they give.
And it isn't really anything to do with suffering from cold symptoms or any symptoms at all.
It's just the number of tests they're doing.
I think it's at this point consisting of a sales campaign for computers and the education
so-called systems.
You know who B.F. Skinner was?
Yeah, kind of know B.F.?
Yeah, a little bit about him.
The behavioral psychologist argued that the concept of mind should be removed from science
and education, that machines can restrict our behavior so that we give only the right
behavior, no complex questions asked.
The student could be a pigeon.
You can get the pigeon to suppress all of its normal movements and give only the desired
of pecking a certain switch behavior.
That's the principle of Skinnerian education so-called.
And exactly those principles are now forming the basis of online education.
They want to make training more efficient so that you don't push any of the unwanted
responses.
You push only the right button and give the right answers.
So it's basically a mindless training system.
To just know, remember things and then repeat them on test.
I guess to your newsletter I'm sure you talk about the idea of then parents who are all
set up to go to work, right?
What are they going to do?
And the kids need touch, right?
And working with people and seeing other kids, I mean that's a whole other stress level on
them, isn't it?
One CEO summed it up very simply.
She said humans are biohazards, machines aren't.
They want to take humans out of the equation, turn everything into a robot production.
Dr. Ray Peters, if you're on hold, sorry, but I want to do this and then we'll begin
doing some questions.
There was a fellow on that seemed like he was pretty well researched and he was a fellow
talking about iron that I mentioned and the vitamin C issue that you confirmed.
And he was suggesting that early on, I don't know, 40s and 50s, somebody convinced people
to start putting iron in our food, right?
And iron enriched flour and things like that.
And then even increased that I think around 1980 or so, they wanted to do more.
And then when we have too much iron in our body, then that contributes to lower copper
and then the iron can then rust and cause problems.
Do you think that most of us have too much iron?
Is it possible in our body?
Yeah.
Men steadily accumulate it through life.
The exceptions are starving in famine zones, for example, where no one gets any meat or
eggs or seafood.
But everyone eating a good normal diet, the men steadily accumulate it.
And the incidence of heart attacks and heart disease, for example, correspond directly
to the level of accumulated iron.
So men are well ahead of women up to the age of 50 or so because women are getting rid
of some iron every month.
Menstruation, right?
Just an ounce or so of blood is enough to keep the iron down.
But after menopause, women start accumulating iron like men and they actually catch up with
men because of the slight difference in the hormones.
Estrogen makes you accumulate iron up to 10 times as fast as a man does.
So, then, well, so where do we get so much iron?
And if we're eating organic foods and not iron-enriched flour, you know, and those kind
of things, we're not really getting extra iron in our food, are we?
Meat is always a very rich source of iron.
So if you eat any meat every day, it's likely to be adding to your iron excess.
And meat also has too much phosphate relative to calcium and magnesium.
And the combination of high phosphate and high iron tend in the same direction to produce
stress and pre-radical damage.
So it would be heavy meat eaters or have more iron?
What other segment of the world, what are they eating?
Anything in particular that ups the iron?
Iron in food was being tampered with, adding iron and synthetic vitamins and such.
Even people who ate oatmeal and bread and rice, for example, were getting too much.
So what's the iron's connection to heart issues, too much iron?
I think it's almost entirely the same thing that the free radical chemists saw.
When you're under stress, you don't need the vitamin C as a catalyst.
There are many other sources of electrons.
In fact, anything that interferes with oxidation is going to tend to put any iron stores that
had been tucked away safely in your cells.
When you don't have oxygen sucking up all the stray electrons, a stray electron will
activate iron that had been harmless.
So the stress creates electrons that activate the iron the same way synthetic vitamin C
activates the iron.
So our stress response lowers the oxygen, and then that causes the oxidation of the
iron that was okay until we got stressed out.
The iron becomes the active ferrous form, where the ferric form can be safely stored.
The ferrous form creates the hydroxyl radical, the most toxic free radical.
Then that damages DNA, creates detectable mutations, and turns on the whole inflammation
process.
And then what's the connection with iron and copper?
Copper is a stronger oxidant than iron is, and so when stress creates the ferrous form
of iron, copper can turn it back into ferric iron.
So copper defends against activated iron by putting it back into the passive storage form.
So the copper just helps the iron not to get toxic and harmful.
But then doesn't iron lower the copper levels too much?
It probably does by competition, but I think it's more likely that stress is causing you
to be unable to retain the copper efficiently, giving the iron a chance to butt in and knock
the copper out of the place it should be.
So it's both too much iron and too much stress that makes us lose copper.
When you start a free radical type of stress, we put out a protein called metallothionein
that has sulfur in it that sticks to heavy metals.
And we put that out to defend against all of these toxic heavy metals, but in the process
it tends to carry away the good copper as well.
Copper binds strongly, so if you're poisoned by mercury, you'll produce metallothionein
and it will also carry out some zinc and copper, which is not good.
Some folks think that things like beef liver, nuts and mushrooms are high in copper and
advisable to have some in our diet.
And then also to maybe give blood.
What do you think about giving blood a couple of times a year?
Several studies have found that people are healthier who give blood occasionally.
Occasionally.
What would you think?
Do you give blood yourself at all?
No.
I just don't like to be around doctors and needles.
That's right.
I understand.
Who wants people poking you?
So you don't, I kind of hear you saying it doesn't sound like you really advise it or
it's necessary to blood thing, but it's not going to hurt anyone to give blood a couple
of times a year, certainly.
No, it's probably beneficial for most people.
After you get around 50 years old or so, things like the exosomes tend to circulate in your
blood after a certain age, they can start having an age promoting effect rather than
a reparative effect.
And so losing some of your old exosomes is probably part of what happens when an old
person donates blood.
I see.
So here's an interesting email.
This is great.
This is from Gloria.
She says, "I would like to give blood.
I heard Morley Robbins on Patrick's show, but I'm only 100 pounds and they won't let
me give blood because I'm too skinny.
They think I am.
And how can I get rid of any extra lead, I mean iron in my body?"
Oh, stopping eating is the most important thing.
Stop eating iron enriched foods.
Yeah, and cut way back on meat.
One or two eggs a day will provide the essential iron that you need.
And emphasizing milk and cheese, for example, are notoriously iron deficient.
And so the extent to which your major calories come from cheese and milk, you're effectively
subtracting iron from your body.
Oh, you're actually taking some away.
Yeah, we're shedding it all the time from our intestines and skin cells.
Ayurvedic medicine, who I've kind of played around with for many years, Dr. Peat, they've
often recommended taking a really nice copper kind of water thing and taking a little water
that's been sitting in the copper vessel once a day or so.
What do you think about that?
I think it's probably helpful.
You don't want to combine copper with any reductant, vitamin C or otherwise.
In your stomach, copper or iron can oxidize fatty acids, vitamins, other essential nutrients.
So you don't want free copper combined with food in the form of pure water on an empty
stomach.
I think it's helpful.
Okay, do it on an empty stomach and leave it alone for a bit.
So there are some nice food-based cherries and some pretty good things organic with vitamin
C.
Do you think it's advisable or healthy to take some of those food-based vitamin C's
extra every day?
I tested myself.
When I stopped taking any synthetic vitamin C, I found that my urine contained around
3,000 milligrams per day months after I stopped any supplement.
I realized that the only foods that don't contain any vitamin C are grains, seeds, and
nuts.
Everything else basically, all the way from algae and potatoes.
They have vitamin C.
Clams, turnip, turnip greens are a great source.
All living forms basically except humans, gorillas, and chimpanzees produce their own
vitamin C.
So seafood and vegetables and fruits all contain as much as we need.
I guess some of the oysters and shrimps and lobsters, they have a lot of good copper in
there, right?
If you want more copper too?
Yeah, oysters are a very good source of copper.
So what would be some of the symptoms, Dr. Ray Peat, of someone who maybe doesn't want
to do this test and find out about the iron load?
Would there be some symptoms that somebody might say, "Oh, I might have too much iron.
I want to do more copper."
Is there any symptoms that come up right on the top for you?
Well, the most studied is heart disease symptoms, but any of the degenerative things are activated
by iron, inflammation, loss of muscle mass, for example.
Please, Dr. Peat, could you repeat what you said about hydroxyl, please?
I was wondering if it's a byproduct of vitamin C. You said it is very good for something.
I can't help but notice it is the first part of the anti-malaria drug being touted by many
doctors, hydrochloric acid.
When it's attached to a molecule like that, it's fine.
It isn't a reactive free radical.
But when something like ferrous iron in the cell contacts water, it creates a free hydroxyl
radical.
An attached hydroxyl radical is part of everything normal like sugar is full of attached hydroxy
particles.
Inside the cell, about a ratio of eight to one of the vitamin C isn't in the form of
ascorbic acid at all.
The cell turns it into dehydroascorbate.
About 80 or 85% of the vitamin C in our bodies doesn't show up in a test.
It gives people the impression that meat and seafood and some plants don't contain any
vitamin C when it's actually there in the form of dehydroascorbate.
Dehydroascorbate works like oxygen to protect against the excess electrons.
If you take in a huge amount of any reducing material, which could be ascorbic acid or
the various things that have been advertised as antioxidant supplements, those contribute
potentially toxic electrons that can produce the hydroxyl radical if they reach an excess
level in your stomach and bloodstream.
Because where they're really going to do their work is inside the cell in the oxidized form.
Many of the flavonoid chemicals in oranges, for example, and guavas and vegetables and
fruits, the colored yellow pigmented or orange pigmented molecules, historically they've
been called antioxidants like vitamin C. But like dehydroascorbate, when they get in the
cell they are functioning as oxidants working with oxygen to defend you against the stress
induced free radical excess electrons.
Wow, man, holy cow, that's pretty geeky stuff.
Patrick Timpone, really great stuff with Dr. Ray P. on Radionetwork.com.
We're having a little bit of interruption with our stream.
Don't worry about it.
The podcast will be available in its entirety.
We're working with it.
Just hang in there and all is well.
Patrick at one, Radionetwork.com.
Let's see, here's something for you, Doc, with Chandra.
She mixes up a little bit of potassium chloride, some sodium chloride, some salt, baking soda,
and some epsom salts, like a little bit of each, a half teaspoon or so.
She drinks this throughout the day.
Can Dr. Peat talk about the pros and cons of this concoction?
If it agrees with you, then the chemicals are probably pure.
You don't want a very large amount of potassium chloride because an overdose can give you
low blood pressure or even stop your heart.
So the potassium chloride is one you want to not overdo.
But athletes, to improve their endurance, can take a tablespoonful of baking soda in
a glass of water before they are going to bicycle 20 or 50 miles or something to improve
their use of oxygen and sparing their glucose for energy.
Okay.
Here is somebody, Dr. Peat, Jeremy.
He said he's lost his sense of taste and smell and has come up with a lot of unique
symptoms that people as well as some other people I know are experiencing.
Does Dr. Peat have any ideas if this COVID could be causing this?
A lot of stress inducers can cause, like I mentioned, the metallothionein protein is
increased by stress of any sort.
Anything that it can carry out of the body and produce a deficiency of zinc is one of
those and the deficiency of zinc has been connected with the loss of smell and probably
taste.
So when we do extra things like a good living source calcium, we have a nice one that's
oyster, not oyster but pearls, or other things like magnesium, things like that.
Do we risk getting things out of balance if we don't do it carefully?
No.
Oyster shell and egg shell calcium carbonate is very safe.
If you take too much, just any pure chemical is going to be rejected by your stomach and
intestine.
A concentrated potassium chloride tablet, for example, has been known to effectively
burn a hole into the stomach or intestine because the potassium chloride relaxes the
intestine and then the concentrated pill sits there disturbing the water balance of the
cells.
Any concentrated large dose of table salt or vitamin B1, anything in a high concentration
can disturb your stomach and intestine fairly seriously.
Very interesting.
Here is someone that lives in a condo upstairs.
They're smoking.
I've been having high histamine reaction symptoms and I feel stress and things like that.
Is there anything that I can do possibly to improve the air?
I guess, have you ever seen any of these air purifiers, Dr. Peat, that work good?
Yeah, they're almost always crazily overpriced.
An ultraviolet, a very strong ultraviolet lamp, if you don't look at it, it will produce
some ozone and destroy viruses and bacteria in the air and to a certain extent detoxify
some of the organic toxins if it's a fairly small space.
Having a fan and the filter combined with a strong ultraviolet bulb, that's the basis
for some of these air cleaning things that they often sell for $1,000.
You can do it yourself.
Yeah, you can do it yourself.
You can figure it out.
My 14-month-old granddaughter has eczema.
It seems like she scratches herself so much it's hard to see and prevent her from scratching
anything that we could look at.
How old was she?
14 months.
If the baby is still nursing, sometimes it's the mother's diet that contains an allergen
that gets into the milk and creates a skin problem in the baby.
So if she's breastfeeding, the mother should carefully check her diet.
And if the baby is eating foods, consider eliminating one food at a time for a week
or so and see if that clears it up.
John wants to know, people are advocating eating grass-fed beef liver for copper and
other nutritional requirements.
How would it make sense and how often do we eat beef liver?
It depends.
If you're over 50, for example, you don't want to overdo the liver because of the high
iron content.
For those people, shrimp, squid, clams, lobster, crabs, all the shellfish.
Their blood consists of copper protein rather than iron-containing hemoglobin.
So they're a reliable source of a high concentration of copper.
But it's interesting, some of the iron people talk about eating the beef liver because it's
so high in copper which will lower the iron, but you said it's high in iron as well.
Yeah, so you don't want to, I think something like two or three ounces a week is about all
an older person would want.
This is from Cecilia, she's in Connecticut.
Can you ask Dr. Peat if he has been studying astrology, is there going to be something
monumental happening with our sun and planets that could affect our world drastically come
this fall?
Can he give any insights?
I don't know of anything that precise in time, but there have been some good physicists who
have looked at the solar cycles and the annual changes in heat production coming out of the
sun.
For many years, the basic sun science has tended to predict an oncoming ice age with
occasional fluctuations into overheating.
Sunspot cycles affect the heat output of the sun, but the general drift of predictions
has been that the sun is going to cool off for hundreds of years, starting anytime in
the next several years.
That would be kind of nice here in Texas, we could use a 20 degree drop, that would
be fine with me.
This is from Eric, he's in Finland.
Hello Patrick and Dr. Peat.
Last month, Dr. Peat referred to the influence of Professor John Beard and Dr. William Donald
Kelly's cancer protocol.
This time, please give us insight on how Kelly and Dr. Nicholas Gonzalez were able to know
how to balance the automatic nervous system via the diet and supplements so we, the average
person, can also achieve this balance on our own as a method to cure disease and maintain
our health.
Keeping your blood sugar steady is the basic thing for regulating the balance between parasympathetic
and sympathetic.
Every day around sunset, but especially if we lie down in the dark, the nervous system
shifts strongly to the parasympathetic side and then at sunrise, for various reasons,
it shifts back to the sympathetic or adrenaline dominated side.
With old age, the tendency is to exaggerate the downturn, the parasympathetic side, and
it happens that many tumors grow fastest during the night and are stimulated by the hormones
that control the parasympathetic side.
That's one of the things that the Kelly-Beard program does working on the pancreas.
They emphasize the proteolytic enzymes as getting into the bloodstream, not just into
the intestine, but it's now confirmed that the proteolytic enzymes secreted into the
intestine, a significant amount of that is absorbed directly into the bloodstream.
So a well-functioning pancreas is producing an increase of proteolytic enzymes in the
bloodstream that, according to their approach, protects against the incipient cancer, especially
in the reproductive system.
That was Beard's approach that Kelly based his thinking on.
The fact that the parasympathetic system increases cell division and produces conditions that
exacerbate inflammation, for example, any pain syndrome usually is most intense between
2 a.m. and 5 a.m., and mortality is generally greatest in the early morning hours because
of that shift towards excessive parasympathetic activity.
Keeping your pancreas under control so it doesn't produce too much insulin is a very
important part of avoiding that age-related nocturnal inflammation.
Interesting.
But you've not been shy about your use of and talking about sugar with orange juice
and even beet sugar and things.
What is not happening in the body where people do that, their blood sugar goes imbalanced
or they have a fasting blood sugar that's 130 or 140 or something?
Is that a pancreas issue?
Partly, but it's generally that something is causing a block to the oxidation of the
glucose and too much fat in the diet, especially polyunsaturated fat.
The poofers.
Yeah, the fats compete with the sugar and stress increases the release of fat into your
bloodstream and that happens at night.
Always the falling blood glucose calls out from storage the free fatty acids and that's
one of the reasons, darkness and long nights of winter, why aging happens.
Almost all human aging happens during the night and when the nights are long in the
winter, the aging process has more hours every day to act.
The lowering of the blood sugar and increase of free fatty acids during the night is part
of what drives that degenerative stress.
So if you wake up after four hours of sleep, for example, and renew your muscle and liver
glycogen stores and brain glycogen with a glass of milk and orange juice, for example,
that will interrupt the stress and let you get back to some restorative sleep.
So that could be two go-to things for people to take at night if they wake up or before
bed, milk and/or orange juice.
Yeah, there have been studies in which just a glass of warm or room temperature milk at
bedtime interrupts some of the most important stress hormones that rise at night.
You know, it's interesting, this is anecdotal and not that what happens to me just means
anything to you out there, but Dr. Peat, I've been drinking lots of orange juice since talking
to you.
It's so fresh, you know, the good stuff.
And my little blood sugar, boy, it's dead on 80 when I wake up and if I take it, you
know, the fasting blood sugar.
So where's all that sugar going?
Where's it all going?
I mean, there's a lot of sugar in orange juice, right?
Yeah, and it happens that orange juice has several things that reduce the work of the
pancreas, the high potassium concentration, for example, in orange juice takes care of
the insulin problem.
Your pancreas doesn't have to make much insulin at all if you're drinking orange juice because
the potassium handles it instead of needing insulin.
And then there are all of these flavonoids, the yellow pigments that block stress reactions
and work like oxygen in the tissues.
One of the functions of insulin is to keep your fatty acids in place in your tissues
so they don't block your ability to oxidize glucose.
And these flavonoids have exactly that function.
They keep the cell able to keep oxidizing glucose.
Interesting.
And so what causes the free fatty acids from not doing their thing in the middle of the
night?
What causes that?
What would we eat that would turn those guys off or do?
Stress obviously would be one, I guess.
Calcium is the other.
And to a certain extent, you don't want to take a spoonful of salt.
That would hurt your stomach.
But just some salty things like pork rinds or salty tortilla chips or something at bedtime
and a glass or two of milk.
Both calcium and sodium help to activate the prefer oxidative energy production in the
cells which normally they're impeded during the night by the free fatty acids.
And the combination of sodium and calcium will lower the stress hormones, especially
parathyroid.
Lower.
And those parathyroid hormone, every night it rises and blocks your mitochondrial oxidative
processes.
So the milk is, if you have enough vitamin D in your system, the calcium from the milk
is in effect activating your mitochondria, restoring their ability to keep running even
in the presence of some fatty acids.
So let me see if I understand.
So the salt is good, the salt before bed?
A little bit.
Yeah.
And then if you get a good source of calcium, that could also help everybody be happy all
night before bed.
Yeah.
Those work together to hold down the stress hormones and let your mitochondria function.
Darkness in all animals that have been studied, the longer the darkness, the more the mitochondria
deteriorate.
And that's a combination of many things, but especially the rising fatty acids and parathyroid
hormone.
So the longer, so if people tend to sleep more during the winter just because it's dark,
it's actually, they're not getting a lot of benefit out of that, are they?
Yeah.
Being awake during a long winter night, it's worse than being asleep.
Oh, is it?
Yeah.
If you're going to have several hours of good, restful, deep sleep, that minimizes the damage
to the mitochondria.
I see.
And if you have to work during the night, you don't get the protective effect of deep
sleep.
So it's still going to cause damage to the mitochondria to be in the dark, but it's better
to pass the darkness in sleep.
Dr. Ray Peat is with us, Patrick Timpone on Radionetwork.com.
We got started a little bit late.
Can you hang around for a few minutes, Dr. Peat?
Okay.
You okay?
Good.
This is Kane in Bellevue, Washington.
Can you please ask Dr. Peat to help me understand why high dose PUFA fish oil seems to help
so many thrive for decades and for decades and going way back from athletes to brain
injury.
Fish oil has helped us, helping many perform at high levels, recover from severe brain
injury, so I don't understand his negative approach to fish oils.
My negative approach, it would take a week or so to give the sources explaining it, but
the short version is that when you ingest highly polyunsaturated oil, it's like the
problem with taking in a large amount of synthetic ascorbic acid.
Any reducing and oxidizing catalysts that are present are going to cause an explosive
degrading oxidation of these highly oxidizable molecules.
Studies have found that by the time fish oil gets into your bloodstream, it's already highly
oxidized and it's these oxidized free radical breakdown products of the fish oil that suppress
the white blood cells and knock down your immune reactions.
So for the first six months, usually, you get these anti-inflammatory effects that seem
very beneficial, but you've probably heard of the radon baths causing immediate relief
from arthritis and they used to give x-ray treatments actually to a sore knee joint and
you'd get immediate knockdown of the inflammation in an arthritic joint from the ionizing radiation
but the anti-inflammatory effects of a big dose of highly oxidizable fish oil is working
by the same mechanism, knocking out the inflammatory white blood cells.
But the effect six months later, the process starts showing up the harmful effects, the
radiation damage continues for 20 or 30 or 40 years later and there haven't been such
studies with the polyunsaturated oil overdoses but the same kind of damage occurs and so
you would expect the long-range damage.
What they see is that immune deficiency begins setting in after about six months of continuous
supplementation of things such as fish oil.
And part of the argument in relation to the brain is that the brain contains a lot of
these highly polyunsaturated fats but when you look at either humans over a period of
several decades or in animal studies during a few years of an animal's development, when
a cow or a person or a dog or rat is newborn, the brain has been highly protected against
fatty acid absorption.
The brain makes its own polyunsaturated fats as needed from sugar.
The brain first produces saturated fatty acids and then creates an omega-9 glycolic acid
and then that can be further unsaturated, desaturated to produce the highly unsaturated
omega-9 series which are used in the brain.
So those are the only proofs that the newborn brain contains.
They're defined as deficient in essential fatty acids but really that's the state in
which the brain has its greatest metabolic energy and its greatest capacity to learn.
With aging, the brain gradually accumulates more and more polyunsaturated fats from the
environment and as it does that, its metabolic rate slows down exactly in proportion with
its ability to learn.
Interesting.
What's the go-to things that we can do other than stop taking any PUFAs, polyunsaturated
fatty acids, to get them out?
Are there things we can do supplementally or dieterarily to get these guys out?
Yeah, that's one of the benefits of adjusting your carbohydrate intake very carefully so
that you get as much as 100% of your energy supply from carbohydrates so that you don't
draw down free fatty acids and that allows you to, when you do take in some environmental
PUFA, you can oxidize that small amount safely.
So if you keep just your general fat intake as low as possible, maybe 15% if possible
of your diet as fats, but getting most of the rest of your energy from carbohydrates,
not too much protein and as little fat as you can manage while still keeping a palatable,
pleasant diet.
But that would be just for somebody who has a PUFA overload.
If you don't have many PUFAs, you could do more fat and things like that, right?
Yeah, a skinny person.
Yeah, like me, I just eat all the butter I can and I don't go anywhere.
Yeah, butter is fine if your oxidative system handles it so you don't store it.
Yeah, yeah, butter, cheese and all.
Here's a good one for you.
My husband's basal temperature is quite low, 96.5 and never gets to normal throughout the
day and his heart rate is 57, he's 68.
He wants to try one of the thyroid supplements hoping to boost his thyroid.
Do you think this would work or should we get on something like armor thyroid or something
like that?
There are dozens of so-called natural thyroid products on the market, but some of them don't
work at all and so if you have someone to write a prescription for armor, I think that's
the best one to start with.
So 96.5, that would be an indication generally of low thyroid?
Yeah, that's two degrees Fahrenheit below normal and that's enough to slow all of your
biological processes.
We have some people that are listening and watching on YouTube this morning, let's get
to them.
Dr. Peat, is it possible that using a near-infrared sauna every night can be counterproductive
for joint issues like arthritis or fibrosis and what are your three diet choices for joints?
So near-infrared, which is those lamps, right?
The heat lamps?
Yeah, that's just closer to red light is what the near means.
But the body is always emitting infrared radiation near-infrared and far-infrared.
So we're broadcasting in the range that TV stations and cell phones use.
Some of our, 70% of our biological energy goes out as radiation, much of it in the roughly
infrared spectrum.
And if you surround yourself with an insulator and reflector, you quickly overheat because
we count on losing two-thirds of our energy into the environment as radiation.
And the problem with unnatural environmental heat added to the system like a hot bath,
if you don't have your orange juice or milk before and during a prolonged hot bath, you
might faint from consuming your glycogen storage too fast because it does rev up your whole
metabolic system and you need to feed it at a higher rate.
So that's the only risk of something like infrared.
Like saunas, near-infrared, far-infrared.
So it'd be good for even far-infrared that I like to do to juice up with some orange
juice before.
Yeah, that's very protective.
Oh cool.
And the great thing about orange juice, Dr. Pease, is it tastes so good.
I mean, phew, man, I tell you.
The body really knows how much it's worth.
It really knows, right.
You drink it and you go, "Boy, this really tastes good."
Should the spine, this is from Mjam on YouTube, should the spine ever be experiencing any
kind of chronic pain?
Should all of this pain be just inflammation?
Yeah, you should never experience prolonged pain.
And where there's pain, there's inflammation.
And if it proceeds too long, the inflammation will tend to produce fibrosis or excess collagen
deposition and eventually atrophy of the good tissues.
So stopping the pain is really not just symptom relief, but it's actually changing your biology.
For example, aspirin and the angiotensin receptor blockers are working not just against the
pain or immediate inflammation and hypertension or whatever, but they're stopping the problem,
actually reversing or blocking the proceeding degenerative processes.
Here's one from Xtalix, that's about the only name I got there.
Can you please ask Dr. Pease, what would be the best approach to deal with an eight-year-old
boy with muscular dystrophy?
Is it safe to give him progesterone?
Yeah, too much progesterone in a boy around puberty is able to interfere, prevent the
testosterone production that will start around the age of nine or 10, the testosterone starts
rising slowly, so you don't want to be exaggerated in the use, but it does help to protect an
atrophy process such as dystrophy of the muscles.
Do women going through perimenopause in that era tend to need a little testosterone hit?
No, if they are watching their thyroid and protecting their liver, the main thing is
to not let estrogen production get out of control because aging, menopause, all of the
stressful changes tend to activate the process of estrogen inside cells, not in the ovaries,
but inside every cell of the body.
Stress turns on the local production of estrogen, which isn't going to get measured in your
bloodstream, but if you took out a piece of tissue from a stressed person over the age
of 55 or so, you're going to find a higher amount of internal estrogen and the aromatase
enzyme that produces it, and if your cholesterol blood level doesn't increase steadily with
age, your ability to produce your own progesterone and testosterone is going to be limited in
proportion to the lack of available cholesterol.
Here's an interesting one from Carol.
What could help if I or one of my dogs were bit by a copperhead?
I killed 11, whoa, last month on my yard, 11, oh my goodness.
She lives out in the country.
Any ideas what could help if she or a dog got bit by one of these guys?
There have been several studies in which an electrical shocking device applied to the
bite area will cause some kind of reaction that detoxifies the poison at the site.
Otherwise I don't know what the specific treatment is, but veterinarians would probably have
an anti-serum to it.
What about people?
So is there something she could explore, some kind of shocking device?
Do you have any other further?
I don't know the sources that make them, but you can find quite a bit of information on
the internet about electro shock and snake bite.
So just Google electro shock and snake bites maybe.
Well, Dr. Peat, thanks for being here.
One last thing, oh this is a good one too, I'm glad I caught it.
From JGL, what does Dr., that'll be a good way to close.
What does Dr. Peat think, does he think there's any negative effects, negative effects on
our body from wearing a face mask, even if for just a little while?
See they get the politically incorrect questions right at the end.
So what do you think?
I mean, they're making some people wear these things all day, right, at work.
Yeah, there are lots of confirmed damages that can happen.
You were talking about exhaling exosomes.
Exosomes become concentrated, even if they're your own exosomes, you're going to concentrate
them and re-breathe them and any environmental stuff, instead of escaping normally with each
breath, they're going to, to the extent that the mask does any filtering at all, it's going
to also concentrate the debris inside the mask so that every breath is a little more
concentrated in the stuff that failed to be filtered out by the mask, but you breathe
it in and then there's a certain filtering effect that keeps it from going away.
Final final question just popped in, and it's a good one.
Is Dr. Peat available for phone consultations?
No.
You don't do that any longer?
Gave that one up, huh?
Too many callers, not enough time.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, Dr. Peat, do you get any painting done these days?
Yep.
Got a little?
I got out to stand in the sunlight when it was too hot to lie down in the sun.
I stood up and dabbled on some paintings.
What kind of things do you do?
Landscapes?
You do landscapes?
Yeah.
You do landscapes.
Well, his website is raypeat.com, right?
raypeat.com?
Mm-hmm.
And we have Ray Peat's newsletter.
That is plural, Ray Peat's newsletter, gmail.com, if you'd like to join that.
And it's an honor to have you here.
Thanks for everything, and we'll see you in about a month or so, sir.
Okay, very good.
Thank you.
Take care of yourself.
Okay, bye.
Dr. Ray Peat's oneradionetwork.com.
Boy, he's fun, huh?
It's amazing that he can remember all this stuff and then connect the dots with, "Whoa,
and this and this."
It's really cool, Ray Peat.
His website, got a lot of good stuff on his website, raypeat.com.
Well, we had quite a day, huh?
Sorry, the internet just got a little wonky there just for a minute.
I guess about 45 minutes ago, but they fixed it up pretty quick.
But the whole podcast will be here.
I'm not sure how the video is.
I think it cramped our video style for a moment.
You know, what are you going to do?
We're very blessed with our internet.
We love you, internet people.
We love you.
So, what do we have tomorrow?
Let's see.
Oh, boy, we got a good show tomorrow.
Tom Luongo is going to be here.
Tom Luongo has got a really interesting whole story about gold.
Let's see what gold's doing today.
It's been booming.
Whoa, whoa, double whoa.
40 bucks.
It's up $40 today.
Almost $2,000.
Silver's up 3.5%, 27.
The dollar, I guess, is not happy.
So, we're going to talk about it.
Gold's on a terror, or so they say, tomorrow.
And then also Joseph Bender, he's really cool.
He's in Austin, and we'll talk about detoxification with Joseph Bender.
So, that's our story for tomorrow.
I love you all very much.
You're doing the best you can, no matter what anybody says.
Drink your orange juice.
Drink your milk.
And I'll see you tomorrow, okay?
I love you.
May the blessings be.
We are listener supported.
One Radio Network.
[music]
[end]
[BLANK_AUDIO]